When I first walked into Bethnal Green Weightlifting Club in 2009 I had no idea what powerlifting really was, or that it would become such a big part of my life. Back then I was one of maybe 2 or 3 powerlifters there, plus maybe 2 or 3 weightlifters. In the 7 years since, powerlifting has exploded in popularity among women. In 2011 I was one of three women who took part in the British Powerlifting's (then known as the GBPF) All-England Championships; in 2016 the women's event is being held separately to the men's as there just isn't enough room & time to host both over the same weekend.

I've seen a lot of parallels in the explosion of popularity of powerlifting among women, with what I do for my day job. Since 1999 I've worked in the tech industry as a developer. While there have always been female developers (in fact the first programmers were almost exclusively women) the software industry became progressively more male-dominated in the 80s and 90s. Similarly, powerlifting since its inception in the 1970s has been very male-dominated. From the 00s onwards female developers have become more commonplace, and there have been concrete attempts to foster more female-friendly communities in tech and software development. So when I noticed a surge in popularity in powerlifting amongst women at the powerlifting gym I train at, and at GBPF competitions, it felt like similar forces were at work.

I have a lot anecdotal experience of how the tech & software industry has attempted to attract more women. As a veteran female developer I've been asked more than once by my employers how they can get more women to apply for jobs (and, admittedly, I do resent the fact that this seems to be a task given to women, when correcting the gender imbalance in the workplace is EVERYONE'S responsibility). But what about powerlifting? After seven years of lifting and six years of competing, I suppose I am something of a veteran (at least compared to some). Obviously many women are attracted to powerlifting already, but how can you encourage more women to take up the sport and, more importantly, keep coming back?

I have to add a disclaimer here that while I am heavily involved in my gym, Bethnal Green Weightlifting Club in London, I am not the gym owner nor a member of the board. BGWLC is an unusual gym in that is it not a business; instead it is a charity run by a committee of members and I don't actually sit on the committee (through choice). So while I do have a hand in what goes on at the gym, I'm not in any way solely responsible - the gym is a team effort, and all credit has to go to the board of trustees, members and volunteers who make great things happen there.

But whether you're a gym business owner, a volunteer for a sports charity or group, or just someone who attends a gym and cares about what goes on there, if you care about having a more diverse group of people lifting, then maybe this article can give you some hints and ideas.

